SQL updates and gap filling (#4911)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/cloud-serverless/query-data/sql/fill-gaps.md

---
title: Fill gaps in data
seotitle: Fill gaps in data with SQL
description: >
  Use [`date_bin_gapfill`](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/sql/functions/time-and-date/#date_bin_gapfill)
  with [`interpolate`](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/sql/functions/misc/#interpolate)
  or [`locf`](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/sql/functions/misc/#locf) to
  fill gaps of time where no data is returned.
menu:
  influxdb_cloud_serverless:
    parent: Query with SQL
weight: 206
list_code_example: |
  ```sql
  SELECT
    date_bin_gapfill(INTERVAL '30 minutes', time) as _time,
    room,
    interpolate(avg(temp))
  FROM home
  WHERE
      time >= '2022-01-01T08:00:00Z'
      AND time <= '2022-01-01T10:00:00Z'
  GROUP BY _time, room
  ```
---

Use [`date_bin_gapfill`](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/sql/functions/time-and-date/#date_bin_gapfill)
with [`interpolate`](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/sql/functions/misc/#interpolate)
or [`locf`](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/sql/functions/misc/#locf) to
fill gaps of time where no data is returned.

> Gap filling SQL queries handle missing data in time series data by filling in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gap-filling SQL queries handle missing data in time series data by filling in
```
?

gaps with interpolated values or by carrying forward the last available observation.

**To fill gaps in data:**

> 1.  Use the `date_bin_gapfill` function to window your data into time based groups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Use the `date_bin_gapfill` function to window your data into time-based groups
```

    and apply an [aggregate function](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/sql/functions/aggregate/)
    to each window. If no data exists in a window, `date_bin_gapfill` inserts
    a new row with the starting timestamp of the window and null values for the 
    queried fields.

2.  Use either `interpolate` or `locf` to fill the inserted null values in the specified column.

>     - **interpolate**: fills null values inserted by interpolating values between non-null values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **interpolate**: fills null values by interpolating values between non-null values.
```

    - **locf**: fills null values by carrying the last observed value forward.
    
    {{% note %}}
The expression passed to `interpolate` or `locf` must use an
[aggregate function](/influxdb/cloud-serverless/reference/sql/functions/aggregate/).
    {{% /note %}}

> 3.  Include a predicate on time in the `WHERE` clause, with both upper and lower time bounds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  Include a `WHERE` clause that sets upper and lower time bounds.
```

    For example:

{{% influxdb/custom-timestamps %}}
```sql

> WHERE time >= time >= '2022-01-01T08:00:00Z' AND time <= '2022-01-01T10:00:00Z'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WHERE time >= '2022-01-01T08:00:00Z' AND time <= '2022-01-01T10:00:00Z'
```

Looks like an accident?
